main ingredient the most important thing
when you're cooking pasta is water water
is the key to cooking pasta properly
you've got to have plenty of it and for
two people I'm using 8 ounces of pasta
spaghetti and I've got in my pot they're
six to seven pints of water depending on
the size of your pot the minimum of six
I'd say for this amount of pasta I used
to put drops of oil in it but I don't
anymore I have put salt in a little bit
of salt in but I found the oil didn't
really make any difference the secret
was having enough water so what you need
is the water up to a very brisk boil
because when the pasta goes in it's
going to bring the temperature down so
it's got to be really really briskly
boiling before you start then all you do
is you just lower the pasta into the
water and if you press it on the bottom
what happens is it begins to collapse
down into the water you can feel it
giving and then finally you can let it
go and then just pop the ends in with a
spoon like that so you've got the ends
in then the next important thing as soon
as that comes back to the boil you've
got to put your timer on and if you've
got good quality pasta like this it's
going to need 12 minutes cheaper pasta
won't need as long it'll go soggy it'll
probably only need eight or ten minutes
then when you put your timer on for 12
minutes you just give it a good stir
like this and you can see as you stir it
you're distributing the pasta in the
water so that it's all going to cook
nice and separately and not cling
together and it's not overcrowded you
can see there there's plenty of water
the other glorious thing about using a
really good-quality pasta is that when
you put it in the water you can actually
get the aroma of the Wheatfield so you
can actually smell that lovely wheaty
smell which is also very important so
that's going to have 12 minutes and
we're going to start with a sauce that's
from the poorer areas of Calabria in
Italy where they just pasta was the
staple meal and they just put what they
could and tried to get it to
good gutsy flavor and what they used was
garlic crushed garlic crushed chilli and
olive oil local ingredients and so what
I've got in my saucepan here is I've got
four tablespoons of olive oil and that's
just been heating and to that this is a
chili this is a fat red chili which has
been deseeded and chopped that's going
to go in with the oil and here I've got
two equally fat cloves of garlic and
they've been crushed so they're going to
go in and then I'm going to turn the
heat down to quite low so it just barely
barely bubbles and by the time the pasta
is cooked I'm going to put a little bit
of salt and pepper in it as well by the
time the pasta is cooked the garlic the
the garlic and chilli will have infused
into the olive oil and then we'll just
pour it over the pasta it's a very
simple sauce but it really helps you to
enjoy the true flavor of the pasta and
the ingredients I've given you there are
not vital some people like more olive
oil some people like more garlic or less
and some people like a lot more chili if
they want it really hot
you